This repository contains my public Linux HOME directory configuration files
(i.e. dot-files).  I've had a collection of home files since 1996 and used
various source backup and control systems over the years to keep from loosing
any, as well as to keep track of changes made over time, with the ability to
view or restore files from previous versions.  I moved everything to a Git
repository (in February of 2012), but had it on private servers until now
(January 2021).  I've started with a fresh history, as at times passwords and
other sensitive information have been committed.

The purpose of making this repository public is for me to be able to easily
share my current configuration files with others.  It is not expected that
anyone would use these files verbatim.  I update files frequently, often
multiple times per day, and at any given point, some files might be broken.  I
often push commits just so I can easily move files from one computer to
another to continue working on them.  I will make tags when I think my setup
is stable enough for others to use.

While the majority of the code contained within this repository is my own,
many one-liners, snippets, or even complete scripts have been copied from
others.  I've tried to give original author credit, however, I've been
tweaking my configuration for over 20 years now and many sources of code or
ideas have been lost or never known.  If you find something here that you
think should be attributed to someone else, let me know and I'll give credit
where it is due.

For any code found here that is not written by someone else and/or does not
have a specific license, you can assume it is licensed under the MIT License.
See [[file:LICENSE][LICENSE]].

-- Kyle Sherman
